## Civil-Engagement
Exploration of predicting civil engagement through Facebook friends.

The files in this repository are the research, R code, and final presentation for our Comp STAT & Data Analysis project on Civil Engagement. I worked with my partner Nate to develop an answer to the questions of whether or not the particular types of friendships that we maintain have an effect on our civil engagement in society. Did friendship across higher and lower income classes affect engagement? Did the age at which these friendships were developed? Did their insular nature affect engagement? We worked first by procuring a dataset collected in conjunction with the Humanitarian Data Exchange and Meta of Facebook friend statistics down to the county level in the United States.

From here, we performed exploratory data analysis to clean, adjust, transform and visualize our data for further computations later down the road. Here we identified potential outliers and covariability between variables, as a means of excluding them from further complicating calculations at a later time. 

We then performed explanatory factor analysis, identifying intrinsic dimensionality in the dataset for predictor and response variables; identifying and performing necessary orthogonal and oblique rotations; and ultimately summarizing our final justified variables. Following this, we then created a diagram to illustrate the relationships interconnecting between our factors for visual representation.

Finally, we created our structural equation model, which after running our fit measurements did not yield particularly tremendous results given the large quantity of data we had to work with. That said, given the interactions at play, we feel as though the work we performed was indeed a beneficial exercise in the domain of statistics. We concluded that further research would be necessary to delve deeper into the topic, expressing the datas significance should not be understated. Computer science, and by extension advanced statistical processes made possible through computational power will be deeply intertwined in unraveling our understanding of the world. Honing skills in this field, combined with maintaining strong moral values are what I believe to be a strong step towards benefitting the common good. 
